It seems like President Trump
is freaking out
about the Democrats
running for president.
For more on this,
it's time for "A Closer Look."
♪♪
Trump spoke this morning
to religious leaders
at the National
Prayer Breakfast.
It's always
a slightly awkward situation
for a president
who's been married three times,
paid hush money to a porn star,
and has probably, at best,
skimmed the Bible.
"And as you all know,
God set a fire to a bush
so he could collect
the insurance money
and build a casino.
It was smart.
It was a smart move."
For example, Trump mentioned the
problem of human trafficking,
and here is his expert diagnosis
on what's causing it.
-Together we will
end the "scorj"
of modern-day slavery that,
because of the Internet,
is at levels
that nobody can believe.
The Internet came along,
and some good things happened,
but some very bad things
happened.
-Oh, really, Dr. Science?
That's your expert opinion?
The Internet came along,
and some good things happened,
and some bad things happened?
One of the good things
about the Internet
is you can Google how to
pronounce the word "scourge."
-Scorj.
[ Laughter ]
-Trump then laid out
what I guess you could say
is his thesis statement
for America,
the thing that makes
our country great.
Reagan called it
the shining city on a hill,
and Obama said
America is a place
where you can write
your own destiny.
And now here are
President Trump's thoughts
on what makes America great.
-America's potential
is unlimited
because our extraordinary people
are just something
that is number one.
-Soaring words.
Just soaring words.
He's like a guy on a date
getting lines fed to him
through an ear piece,
and the feed cut out.
"You have beautiful eyes,
and your...nose.
Well, I mean, you know,
it's your nose, but it's, uh...
You got a real great honker."
Trump was trying to live up
to the theme of unity
he set out in his State of
the Union address Tuesday.
As we all know,
he's incapable of that.
Trump always needs something
to scare people about,
and in his speech on Tuesday,
he landed on a new target,
warning that Democrats
would turn America
into a socialist country,
and it prompted
a few scattered reactions
from Republicans
in the audience.
-Here in the United States,
we are alarmed
by the new calls to adopt
socialism in our country.
[ Scattered boos ]
-Well, guys, you did it. You
stopped socialism by booing it.
It reminds me of
Ronald Reagan's famous line --
"Mr. Gorbachev, boo this wall."
At least they're making real
proposals like Medicare for all.
You guys stole
your best political argument
from Statler and Waldorf.
-Boo!
-And then...
[ Cheers and applause ]
Then, of course, the camera
caught the reaction
of self-described Democratic
socialist Bernie Sanders
after Trump vowed
to stop socialism
from taking root in America.
-America was founded
on liberty and independence,
and not government coercion,
domination, and control.
We are born free,
and we will stay free.
[ Cheers and applause ]
[ Laughter ]
-So, turns out Statler
was in the audience.
I mean, that is --
That's a real --
[ Cheers and applause ]
Classic Bernie face there.
That's the face Bernie makes
when he finds out the restaurant
charges for bread.
"Bread is supposed to be free!
Breadicare for all!"
[ Laughter ]
[ Cheers and applause ]
I hope you're applauding
for the writer
who told me "Breadicare for all"
wouldn't work.
[ Laughter ]
And then yesterday
in an interview on CNBC,
Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin
doubled down on Trump's line
about socialism,
although the way he said it
left some people
scratching their heads.
-The good news is, the U.S.
economy is doing terrific.
We continue to have
very strong jobs numbers.
I think you've just begun to see
the beginning of tax reform.
I think you're going to
see that kick in a lot again.
And as the President
talked about last night,
his economic program is working.
We're not going back
to socialism.
-Now, when he says "going back,"
he's probably referring
to President Obama,
who was many things,
but he was not a socialist.
I mean, first of all,
look at the way he dresses now.
He looks like
a high-powered sports agent.
"LeBron, baby!
You're, uh...crushin' it."
The minute
he left the White House,
he got cast in a recurring role
on "Ballers."
[ Laughter ]
And yet...while he was whining
about socialism in public,
Trump was also claiming
in private that he had predicted
the success of one of
the most famous self-described
Democratic socialists
of the new Congress,
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.
Trump met news anchors
hours before his speech
and claimed
that he was among the first
to spot her political talent
and said he had predicted
her primary upset last year.
Trump said he knew Ocasio-Cortez
had "it," meaning star power.
Oh, really? You predicted
that one of the most charismatic
and Internet-famous politicians
in the country had star power?
I wonder who else
he brags about.
"You know who I think
is going places? Tom Hanks."
[ Laughter ]
Trump thinks he's good
at spotting star power
because he thinks
he has star power,
but when people say Trump has
"it," that's not what they mean.
"I'm sorry,
but it looks like you have it.
And, um...
it has gone
straight to your brain."
Scaremongering about socialism
might have worked
a few years ago,
but it's lost its punch now
that Republicans have used it
over, and over, and over again.
Just take last year's
midterm elections.
Trump went to Wisconsin,
a state he won in 2016,
to campaign against Democratic
Senator Tammy Baldwin,
and he tried to warn the crowd
that Baldwin
would support
socialized medicine,
although he claimed he was
trying to be nice about it.
-Leah's radical far-left
opponent is Tammy Baldwin...
[ Audience boos ]
...who wants a socialist
takeover of healthcare.
[ Audience boos ]
You know, I'm trying
to say that very nicely.
I'm trying to --
See, normally I'd scream,
"They want
a socialist takeover!"
Now I say,
"Wants a socialist takeover."
I'm trying to be nice.
-It's so jarring
when he tells people
he's pretending to be nice.
It's like if Robert De Niro
looked into the camera
halfway through a movie
and said,
"I'm not really in the mafia.
I'm pretending.
None of this is real."
[ Laughter and applause ]
And the attack didn't work.
Baldwin ended up winning
her race by 10 points,
but if you thought
billionaire Donald Trump
would be the
least effective messenger
against the supposed dangers
of socialized medicine,
you'd be wrong.
Because on Tuesday,
Fox Business News
actually found someone
who was even worse at it --
"Duck Dynasty" star
Phil Robertson.
Fox had him on for some reason,
and instead of asking him
about something
he's qualified to talk about,
like duck calls or how to dress
if you want to blend
into a marsh,
they asked him
about healthcare policy,
and he ended up
going on an insane rant
about Senator Kamala Harris'
proposal
to eliminate
private health insurance.
Even the Fox anchor
who invited him on
was flustered by how crazy
his answers were.
-We have been given, contrary
to what Kamala Harris said --
She says, "Elect me,
and everything's free.
Look, everybody can have
their own healthcare.
The government's going to
finance the whole thing."
What I'm saying is that, Kamala,
I already have healthcare.
It's given to me by God.
Eternal healthcare.
I'm guaranteed to be raised
from the dead.
I have life and immortality
given to me by God
through Jesus Christ.
-But people get sick on Earth
in human form,
so would you advise --
-The temporary reprieve
is not worth it.
-The anchor actually had to say,
"People get sick on Earth
in human form."
[ Laughter ]
I mean, I'm assuming --
I'm assuming
after you have to say that
to a guest,
your next stop is at your
producer's office to say,
"Maybe no more woods people?"
Also, it's so crazy
seeing a guy say that
with a stock ticker
underneath him.
"Did you get
any stock tips today?"
"No, but I heard Phil
Robertson's gonna live forever."
And, by the way, lest you think
Fox sought out the opinion
of a regular guy,
Hillbilly Gandalf here
reportedly has a net worth
of $15 million,
plus an extra 38 cents
if he ever combs out his beard.
"Ooh!"
[ Laughter ]
And yet somehow the fever dream
got weirder from there
because Robertson went on to
claim that people don't need
healthcare at all
and that he was living proof.
-I'm telling her, I have eternal
healthcare, and it's free.
Doctors can give you
a little temporary reprieve,
but they cannot save you
from physical death.
The doctors who treat you,
they die, too. Jesus --
-But you're not dismissing
that we need --
people need healthcare, right?
It's just who pays --
-I didn't have healthcare
for 50 years.
-Well, you look great.
[ Laughter ]
[ Cheers and applause ]
The reason they're all freaking
out about Medicare for all
is because they know it
makes basic sense to people.
Most people don't care
whether it's called socialism
or capitalism or whatever.
They just know it's inherently
unfair for mega-billionaires
to hoard their wealth
while millions of Americans
don't even have healthcare.
Ocasio-Cortez made that point
in an interview recently,
and a Fox News guest
mocked her for it.
-A system that allows
billionaires to exist
when there are parts of Alabama
where people
are still getting ringworm
because they don't have access
to public health is wrong.
-She's saying, Mark,
that basically
she doesn't want
the kind of poverty
that leads to lack of healthcare
to exist...
when people are, you know,
allowed to have
billions of dollars
and be fat cats, essentially.
-Well, first of all, I mean the
fact is ringworm isn't deadly.
I mean, people get ringworm --
It's like foot fungus.
-"We know ringworm isn't deadly.
For some people, it's jewelry."
[ Laughter ]
"Will you take this ring
and be my swamp bride?
I'm never gonna die.
You can be on my health
insurance. I get it from Jesus!"
[ Laughter ]
[ Cheers and applause ]
Now, there is a reason, a reason
these guys are freaking out
about Medicare for all
and why most Democrats running
for President are for it.
It makes basic sense to people.
Everyone deserves healthcare.
For one very simple reason,
and that is...
-People get sick on Earth
in human form.
-This has been "A Closer Look."